.TH "locks" "5" "4.25.0" "libzypp" "System Tools"
.SH "NAME"
.LP
locks - libzypp locking file

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
The file \fI/etc/zypp/locks\fR is read by libzypp at startup if
\fIzypp.conf\fR allows it. The entries are used for initial locking of
packages. Locking a package means not allowing to install or uninstall
it. Valid entries are
.TP
\fI attribute\fR\fB:\fR \fIvalue\fR
Where attributes and their values are described below.
.br
Locks are separated by empty lines.

.SH "ATTRIBUTES"
.LP
All attributes are lower-case.

.TP
.B repo
specifies repository restriction. Only alias is accepted.
.br
By default all repositories match.

.TP
.B type
resolvable type restriction
.br
The values can be \fBpackage\fR, \fBpatch\fR, \fBpattern\fR, \fBproduct\fR and \fBsrcpackage\fR.
.br
By default all types match.

.TP
.B case_sensitive
if strings are matched case sensitive.
The values are \fBtrue\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBon\fR, \fBoff\fR.
.br
The default is case insensitive.

.TP
.B install_status
status of object. Possible states are \fBinstalled\fR,
\fBnot-installed\fR and \fBall\fR. If more install statuses are
specified then the last one is used.
.br
The values are \fBinstalled\fR for all packages which are installed, \fBnon-installed\fR for packages which can be installed or reinstalled and \fBall\fR for both.
.br
The default is \fBall\fR.

.TP
.B match_type 
type of string matching in values. Does not affect \fBtype\fR and \fBrepo\fR which must be specified exactly.
.br
The values are \fBexact\fR, \fBsubstring\fR, \fBregex\fR for regular
expressions, \fBglob\fR for matching as on the command line, and \fBword\fR.
.br
The default is \fBsubstring\fR.

.TP
.B query_string
String to be matched in multiple attributes. Should be restricted by
another attribute with empty value ( it is recommended, because without restriction expect some performance problems ). 

.TP
.B version
Restrict the lock only to some versions. It contains two parts: an
optional operator and the version.
.br
The operator is \fB==\fR,\fB!=\fR,\fB<\fR,\fB>\fR,\fB<=\fR,\fB>=\fR. If operator is not specified then \fB==\fR is used.
.br
The version has the format 
.RB [ epoch: ] version [ -release ].
.br
Example: version: < 0:0.11.4-2

.TP
.B solvable_name 
name of object (e.g. zypper)

.TP
.B solvable_summary
summary of object

.TP
.B solvable_arch
architecture of object (e.g. x86_64, i586) 

.TP
.B solvable_description
description of object 

.TP
.B solvable_eula 
license text of objects which request accepting license by user

.TP
.B solvable_license 
license of package (only for package) (e.g. GPL2)

.TP
.B solvable_keywords 
keywords which specify package (only for package)

.TP
.B solvable_authors
authors of package (only for package)

.TP
.B solvable_group
package group (only for package) (e.g. Development/Tools/Version Control )

.TP
.B update_reference_type
reference for update (e.g. bugzilla,cve) (only for patches)

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP

.TP
.B Exact Package
This is the way YaST UI does it. Lock k3b (e.g. you don't want to update it).
.br
-----locks-----
.br
type: package
.br
solvable_name: k3b
.br
match_type: exact
.br
case_sensitive: on

.TP
.B Package Wildcard
This is the way "zypper addlock cross-*-gcc-icecream-backend" does it.
.br
-----locks-----
.br
type: package
.br
solvable_name: cross-*-gcc-icecream-backend
.br
match_type: glob
.br
case_sensitive: on

.TP
.B Versioned Lock
Do not install new GCC. This format is used when converting from the
openSUSE-10.3 lock format.
.br
-----locks-----
.br
solvable_name: gcc
.br
match_type: glob
.br
version: > 4.2

.TP
.B Anything named KDE
Locks everything which contains kde in the name.
.br
-----locks-----
.br
solvable_name: kde

.TP
.B Anything mentioning KDE
Locks everything which contains kde in the name, summary, or description.
.br
-----locks-----
.br
query_string: kde
.br
solvable_name:
.br
solvable_summary:
.br
solvable_description:

.SH "HOMEPAGE"

This manual page only covers the most important attributes. The
complete list is available at
http://en.opensuse.org/Libzypp/Locksfile

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Josef Reidinger <jreidinger@suse.cz>
.br
Manual page contributions by Martin Vidner <mvidner@suse.cz>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
zypper(8)
